<h1>The Genetic Algorithm</h1>
The code uses what is known as a genetic algorithm to generate new trajectories for the spacecraft. Any unique trajectory a spacecraft can travel to its destination can be represented by a set of 25 (26? 19?) parameters (rkParameters). Once the code has evaluated how well each of these sets (or individuals) meet the goals laid out by the code, it sorts them according to their fitness for the goal and how different they are from other individuals. Then, it selects the best of these individuals and pairs them up to recombine their parameters and create new individuals. This is where the “genetics” part comes in - two sets of parameters are crossed over so new sets of parameters are generated with some blend of the characteristics their parents had. These new individuals are then subjected to random mutations to increase the diversity of those in the pool and potentially produce better individuals. 
<br></br>

In the genetic algorithm, we have a variety of terms we use to refer to a particular path a spacecraft can take to its destination.

- Individual: A generic term referring either to a Child or an Adult.
- [Child](../Cuda/Genetic_Algorithm/child.h): The set of parameters that characterize a trip, as well as the position and speed differences of the spacecraft at the end of its journey. Children are the only things that should ever undergo a mutation and are the only things that should ever be passed through callRK. Children should never be sorted.
- [Adult](../Cuda/Genetic_Algorithm/adult.h): An Adult inherits all its genetic information from a Child and basically extends the Child class. An Adult inherits everything from a Child, but also has a rank and distance/rarity (depending on the ranking method specified). Having a rank and a distance/rarity gives an Adult the unique ability to be sorted. Adults should never be passed through GPU though, as they already have a rank and distance/rarity assigned and it would be a waste of computational power to recompute their final position and speed differences.


Other terms that are commonly used when we are referring to a genetic algorithm include

- Mask: A mask is a set of 25 (26? 19?) numbers corresponding to each of the different rkParameters. They are used to determine how a Child will inherit genes from its parents (for more information on this, see the [Mask_ENUM](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#maskvalue-enum) section of Code_Overview_CS_readme.md). They also determine if a specific parameter will be mutated or not (more information about this in the [mutateMask](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#mutatemask) section of Code_Overview_CS_readme.md).
- Mutation: Every time a new Child is created, there is a chance that one or more of its parameters will be "mutated" and will be given a slightly different value than it would have if it was generated solely through crossover.
- Annealing: Annealing has to do with how large the mutation range is when mutations occur. Initially, there can be fairly large changes to the parameters, since we have not yet found a path towards a reasonable solution. Once the algorithm gets closer to finding individual that meets the goal, the annealing will decrease and the mutations will become less dramatic. For more information on annealing, refer to [Anneal.cpp/h](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#annealcpph) in the Code_Overview_CS_readme.md.
- Crossover: This term refers to the method by which the best Adults produce the next generation of Children. In this process, two Adults have their genes (or more specifically their sets of rkParameters) mixed in some way to produce a Child distinct from each of its parents. The code currently has 4 types of crossover in use. For more on the specifics of the different crossover functions, refer to the sections on [crossOver_wholeRandom](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#crossover_wholerandom), [crossOver_bundleVars](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#crossover_bundlevars), [crossOver_average](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#crossover_average), and [crossOver_averageRatio](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#crossover_averageratio).

For more information on the way the specific functions work, refer to [Code_Overview_CS_readme.md](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#table-of-contents), specifically, the sections on [genetic_algorithm.cpp/.h](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#geneticalgorithmcpph) and [ga_crossover.cpp/.h](./Code_Overview_CS_readme.md#ga_crossovercpph), or read through the actual functions and their comment headers in the header (.h) files.