<h1>Planet Calculations Explanation</h1>
Planet calculations deals with calculating the orbits of any planet or any other celestial body the spacecraft may interact with during its trip. Currently, it is only set up to work with Earth and Mars. Earth positions are only calculated from triptime_max to triptime_min (where Earth is during the spacecraft's launch window) and Mars positions are calculated over the entire duration of the trip. 
<br></br>
<h2>Indexing in PlanetCon</h2>
One of the things that is slightly strange in planetInfo is the order in which the positions of the planets are put into planetCon. planetCon starts with the time furthest from the launch date and goes back in time to the launch date. planetCon for Mars, for example, starts with the Mars's position when the spacecraft reaches its target and the last element in Mars's planetCon is Mars's position if the spacecraft left Earth and took triptime_max seconds to reach its target. So, when you are trying to find where Mars would be at a certain point in time, you need to think about how many seconds this point in time is before the end of the mission.
<br></br>
When planetCon is initially set up, it does not calculate a planet's position for every point in time, but only every timeRes seconds. But, using getCondition or getConditionDev, you can find the position of a planet at any time. When you are using either of these functions, the currentTime you are passing in is not how many seconds it has been since the spacecraft began its mission, but how many seconds it is until the spacecraft completes its mission.
<br></br>
It may seem odd that planetCon starts at the time when the spacecraft completes its mission and not the time when it starts its mission, but since the only fixed date is the date when the spacecraft completes it mission and since the start date varies depending on tripTime while every individual with a different tripTime relies on the same marsLaunchCon, it actually makes the most sense to arrange the array in this order. Since we only want to have to calculate marsLaunchCon once, we need to have an array that would work for any mission whose length falls within the acceptable tripTime range. Thus, the array would have to go from the earliest possible launch date (triptime_max before the date the spacecraft reaches its destination), so if the tripTime was any less than triptime_max, any time you were accessing a planet's position, you would need to add the difference between triptime_max and the actual tripTime to the time.
<br></br>
<h2>Calculations of Earth vs. Other Celestial Bodies</h2>
Earth's positions are calculated over a different period than other celestial bodies are. Mars, for example, has its position calculated from the time the spacecraft completes the mission to the earliest possible time the spacecraft could leave Earth. But Earth's position is only calculated from triptime_min to triptime_max. This is because our code currently assumes the spacecraft will not try to use Earth for a gravitational assist and that once the spacecraft leaves Earth, Earth will no longer affect it. Thus, we only need to be aware of where Earth is during the potential launch window.
<br></br>
<h2>Adding Other Celestial Bodies</h2>
As previously mentioned, Earth and Mars are currently the only celestial bodies planetInfo works with. Adding other celestial bodies to planetInfo is fairly simple (it only requires an couple extra if statements to load in the positions of the body and print its name during the calculation phase), but you will likely also want to add its gravitational force to the calculations of the spacecraft's position and speed. You will need to add the distance between the body and the spacecraft to the runge kutta calculations and factor its gravitation influence into motion equations and the error calculation in output.cpp.